Improving clustering guide and more information about cache-stack and custom stacks (#13491)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/guides/src/main/server/caching.adoc

Keycloak is designed for high availability and multi-node clustered setups.
The current distributed cache implementation is built on top of https://infinispan.org[Infinispan], a high-performance, distributable in-memory data grid.

> == Enable clustering

Reviewer: afair we decided to always use cache instead of cluster, but not hard on this.

Author: Glad you are not hard on it. distributed caching seems more verbose and the same thing as clustering.

But I'll change it back to avoid more discussions.

When you start Keycloak in production mode, by using the `start` command, caching is enabled and all Keycloak nodes in your network are discovered.

> By default, caches are using a `UDP` transport stack so that nodes are discovered using IP multicast transport based on UDP. While not suitable

Reviewer: > By default, caches are using a `UDP` transport stack so that nodes are discovered using IP multicast transport based on UDP. While not suitable
> for most production deployments, the server allows you to choose other transport stacks as you will see later in this guide.

This is a bit ambiguous. Do you mean 
1) UDP IP Multicast is not suitable for most production deployments? 
2) other transport stacks are not suitable for most production deployments?

Suggestion (assuming 1. is what is wanted): 

By default, caches are using a `UDP` transport stack so that nodes are discovered using IP multicast transport based on UDP. For most production environments, there are better alternatives to UDP for node discovery available. Keycloak allows you to either choose from a set of pre-defined transport stacks or to define your own custom stack, as you will see later in this guide.

Author: But you are basically saying the same thing using different words, no?

UDP is not suitable for most deployments and we provide different alteratives. That is basically it.

Reviewer: as stated before, it is ambiguous for me to read, so can mean 2 things, either:
* "UDP" is not suitable for prod envs, so the "while" refers to the sentence before. 
or:
*  "cache stacks" are not suitable for production envs, that happens when you read the second sentence alone: "While not suitable for most production deployments, the server allows you to choose other transport stacks as you will see later in this guide."

the "while" is ambiguous, can reference 2 things, so I changed it in my suggestion to make it more clear that UDP is meant.

 But not hard on it, should be clear from context. go with whatever you think is best.

Author: I see now. I can change that, better is to avoid confusion.

for most production deployments, the server allows you to choose other transport stacks as you will see later in this guide.

> To explicitly enable clustering, enter this command:

Reviewer: see other command w.r.t. cache vs clustering

<@kc.build parameters="--cache=ispn"/>

> When you start Keycloak in development mode, by using the `start-dev` command, Keycloak uses only local caches and clustering is completely disabled by implicitly setting the `--cache=local` option.

Reviewer: also "clustering"

|sessions|Distributed|Caches user sessions, created upon successful authentication and destroyed during logout, token revocation, or due to expiration
|clientSessions|Distributed|Caches client sessions, created upon successful authentication to a specific client and destroyed during logout, token revocation, or due to expiration
|offlineSessions|Distributed|Caches offline user sessions, created upon successful authentication and destroyed during logout, token revocation, or due to expiration
|offlineClientSessions|Distributed|Caches client sessions, created upon successful authentication to a specific client and destroyed during logout, token revocation, or due to expiration
|loginFailures|Distributed|keep track of failed logins, fraud detection
|actionTokens|Distributed|Caches action Tokens
|====

=== Cache types and defaults

.Local caches
Keycloak caches persistent data locally to avoid unnecessary round-trips to the database.

The following data is kept local to each node in the cluster using local caches:

* *realms* and related data like clients, roles, and groups.

> * *users* and related data like, granted roles and group memberships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *users* and related data like granted roles and group memberships.
```

* *authorization* and related data like resources, permissions, and policies.
* *keys*

> Local caches for realms, users, and authorization are configured to have 10,000 entries per default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Local caches for realms, users, and authorization are configured to hold up to 10,000 entries per default.
```

you can cache, less often the server needs to fetch data from the database. You should evaluate the trade-offs between memory utilization and performance.

.Invalidation of local caches
Local caching improves performance, but adds a challenge in multi-node setups.

When one Keycloak node updates data in the shared database, all other nodes need to be aware of it, so they invalidate that data from their caches.

The `work` cache is a replicated cache and used for sending these invalidation messages. The entries/messages in this cache are very short-lived,
and you should not expect this cache growing in size over time.

.Authentication sessions
Authentication sessions are created whenever a user tries to authenticate. They are automatically destroyed once the authentication process
completes or due to reaching their expiration time.

The `authenticationSessions` distributed cache is used to store authentication sessions and any other data associated with it
during the authentication process.

By relying on a distributable cache, authentication sessions are available to any node in the cluster so that users can be redirected

> to any node without loosing their authentication state. However, production-ready deployments should always consider session affinity and favor redirecting users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to any node without losing their authentication state. However, production-ready deployments should always consider session affinity and favor redirecting users
```

to the node where their sessions were initially created. By doing that, you are going to avoid unnecessary state transfer between nodes and improve
CPU, memory, and network utilization.

.User sessions

Once the user is authenticated, a user session is created. The user session tracks your active users and their state so that they can seamlessly

> authenticate to any application without being asked for their credentials again. For each application the user authenticates with a client session

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authenticate to any application without being asked for their credentials again. For each application, the user authenticates with a client session
```

> is created too so that the server can track the applications the user is authenticated with and their state on a per-application basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is created too, so that the server can track the applications the user is authenticated with and their state on a per-application basis.
```

User and client sessions are automatically destroyed whenever the user performs a logout, the client performs a token revocation, or due to reaching their expiration time.

The following caches are used to store both user and client sessions:

* sessions
* clientSessions

By relying on a distributable cache, user and client sessions are available to any node in the cluster so that users can be redirected
to any node without loosing their state. However, production-ready deployments should always consider session affinity and favor redirecting users
to the node where their sessions were initially created. By doing that, you are going to avoid unnecessary state transfer between nodes and improve
CPU, memory, and network utilization.

> As an OpenID Connect Provider, the server is also capable of authenticating users and issue offline tokens. Similarly to regular user and client sessions,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an OpenID Connect Provider, the server is also capable of authenticating users and issuing offline tokens. Similarly to regular user and client sessions,
```

Action tokens are used for scenarios when a user needs to confirm an action asynchronously, for example in the emails sent by the forgot password flow.
The `actionTokens` distributed cache is used to track metadata about action tokens.

=== Configuring caches for availability

Distributed caches replicate cache entries on a subset of nodes in a cluster and assigns entries to fixed owner nodes.

Each distributed cache has two owners per default, which means that two nodes have a copy of the specific cache entries.
Non-owner nodes query the owners of a specific cache to obtain data.
When both owner nodes are offline, all data is lost.
This situation usually leads to users being logged out at the next request and having to log in again.

The default number of owners is enough to survive 1 node (owner) failure in a cluster setup with at least three nodes. You are free

> to change the number of owners accordingly to better fit into your availability requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to change the number of owners accordingly to better fit into your availability requirements. To change the number of owners, open `conf/cache-ispn.xml` and change the value for `owners=<value>` for the distributed caches to your desired value.
```

<@kc.build parameters="--cache-stack=<ec2|google|azure>"/>

=== Custom transport stacks

> If none of the available transport stacks are enough for your deployment, you are able to change your cache configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the available transport stacks do not fit your deployment, you are able to provide a custom cache configuration file
```

and define your own transport stack.

For more details, see https://infinispan.org/docs/stable/titles/server/server.html#using-inline-jgroups-stacks_cluster-transport[Using inline JGroups stacks].

.defining a custom transport stack
[source]
----
<jgroups>
    <stack name="my-encrypt-udp" extends="udp">
    <SSL_KEY_EXCHANGE keystore_name="server.jks"
        keystore_password="password"
        stack.combine="INSERT_AFTER"
        stack.position="VERIFY_SUSPECT"/>
        <ASYM_ENCRYPT asym_keylength="2048"
        asym_algorithm="RSA"
        change_key_on_coord_leave = "false"
        change_key_on_leave = "false"
        use_external_key_exchange = "true"
        stack.combine="INSERT_BEFORE"
        stack.position="pbcast.NAKACK2"/>
    </stack>
</jgroups>

<cache-container name="keycloak">
    <transport lock-timeout="60000" stack="my-encrypt-udp"/>
    ...
</cache-container>
----

By default, the value set to the `cache-stack` option has precedence over the transport stack you define in the cache configuration file.

> If you are defining your own stack make sure the option is not set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are defining a custom stack, make sure the `cache-stack` option is not used for the custom changes to take effect.
```
